There are majorly 5 Operating Systems used globally to communicate with the hardware to exacute instructions
  1. Windows - used for personal laptops or desktops exclusively.
  2. Linux - this distributions are used in serer side because of its efficency and security.
  3. IOS - thi is used in mac laptops or desktops and iphones specifically.
  4. Andriod - this is used exclusively in mobile phones as it is very compatable with mobile applications.
  5. RTOS - used in electrical devices like those of dialy use where the logic is feeded into a chip.

Now to communicate to the OS and give instrustions various tech languages are used for the business logic 
  1. Java
  2. C, C++
  3. C#
  4. Python
  5. R

And the user to use that application various UI technologies are used to make the display user friendly
  1. HTML
  2. CSS
  3. Javascript
  4. Php
  5.Angular JS
  
These applications store the data given by the user using databases
  1. Hadoop
  2. Oracle
  3. DB2
  4. Apache
  5. mysql

These databases are stored in the cloud so that it is safe
What is Cloud? - it is a virtual storage of data in various servers across the globe.
Cloud provider - AWS, Azure, GCP, IBM Cloud, Oracle Cloud etcc..

1. To upload the developed code to an online server making use of github
  Create an account in Github - Vagvane
  Create a repository - Devops (will give an url save it)
  Create a token from settings and save it
    1.1 Now download git for locally developed code to upload to server
        Create a folder on your local device and open using git bash
        Run command - git init
                      git config--global user.email"tvagvane@gmail.com
                      git config--global user.name"Vagvane"
    1.2 Create a file in the folder - index.html
        Run command - git add.
                      git commit -m "1st commit"
                      git branch -M main
                      git push -u https://saved_token@github.com/Vagvane/Devops main (after doing this once only git push can be used)
                      git pull (if changed directly on github then to get to local folder use this)
2. To upload the code from github to an application server making use of Jenkins 
